I think people conflate two
different things here when they
talk about the moving frontier
of space exploration if you can
advance a space frontier you
have gone farther than any one
has gone before
to me that's advancing a space
frontier anything else could be
an engineering frontier and of
course there's overlap between
the two so SpaceX launched into
orbit came back and landed
that's great but we've never
done that before now we ask who
is going to advance the space
frontier the history of this
exercise a high risk with little
promise of economic return for
doing at first the history that
exercise tells me that
governments do it and they
assign the tasks and the patent
skip made and discovered to
accomplish these previously
untapped goals once that's
quantified then you have private
enterprise come in and make a
buck off the first Europeans to
the new world were not the Dutch
East India Trading Company was
columbus set by Spain
spain had other objectives have
a baseline of time much longer
than a quarterly report or an
annual report it's a clean tree
countries can make those kinds
of investments particularly if
the long-term return on that
investment is for the greater
glory of the country itself i
don't see SpaceX as being like
the private company that's going
to take us to Mars they could do
it on a SpaceX rocket that's not
a new thing the relationship
between NASA and all the rest
what would be new is if space
tech said we're going to Mars
and we don't need any
governmental help we're gonna do
this as a complete commercial
exercise i just don't see that
happening
imagine the conversation i'm CEO
of a company and I want to be
the first to put a colony on
Venus but I'm a private
companies are bringing investors
and they asked me questions they
say how much does it cost
I don't know but more than has
ever been spent in space before
ok there's a dangerous yes
people will probably die
what's the return on the
investment i don't know probably
nothing for a long time
that's a really quick meeting
the government can say we want
to go to Venus because a
strategic value possible
long-term economic value
that venture capitalist
investors don't have the
patience to wait out so I'm just
trying to be practical here and
the way civilizations have
behaved ever since there's been
civilization